For Project 3, we are given the task to analyze a log file which contains information about 50 different users over the month of May 2020, and generate a variety of reports based off it. Each row of the log file contains important information about the user, and it is crucial for the completion of generating reports for them. Every row contains 4 different components, these include the “Date and Time” of the activity, the specific “Activity” that the user performed, the “Server” from which the activity from the user occurred, and the “Email ID” of the user. After analyzing and looking in depth at the log file and the information it contains, we are required to generate 4 different reports. The 4 reports that we need to generate includes a “Suspicious Activities” report in which we record if a user logs into any of the systems more than 5 times in a single day, or if the user logs into any of the systems even once between 12:00 am to 5:00 am, an “Irresponsible Behavior” report where we check if the number of logins is more than the number of logouts for a particular user on a given day, a “System Glitch” report where we document if the system records more number of logouts than the number of logins for any user, and a “Domain Count” report in which we list all of the unique domains as well as the number of users registered within each domain.

In order to solve the given problem, I plan on creating and utilizing a dictionary, which would be used for the data and information of the user. The keys of this dictionary would be the user’s email address, and the values would be a list of user sessions. Each session will be its own dictionary for the user session’s date and time, the user activity, and the server. For the “Suspicious Activities” report, I plan to utilize the “def” function, comparison operators, conditional statements (if, elif, else), and iterations (for _ in range). I first am going to define the function, which would be suspicious activities, and use the conditional statements as well as the comparison operators to show if a user has logged into the system more than 5 times in a single day. I then am going to incorporate iterations, specifically the “for _ in range” statement, so that I can see if a user has logged into the system between 12:00 A.M. and 5:00 A.M. In the “Irresponsible Behaviors” and “System Glitch” reports, I will use the “def” function again, as well as conditional statements. I first plan on defining both functions, which are irresponsible behaviors and system glitches. I will then utilize conditional statements to show if a user has a higher amount of logins than logouts for the irresponsible behaviors report, and if a user has a higher amount of logouts than logins for the system glitch report. These two reports are separate and the goals for each report are contrasting each other. Since they are basically asking for the opposite of one another, similar functions and statements will be used for both of these reports. Finally, for the “Domain Count” report, I will define the function (def domain count), and then utilize conditional statements (if, elif, else). The “if” and “elif” statements will be used to see if the user has a “common” domain name for their email address. The “else” statement will be used to print if a user has a different domain name other than the “common” ones. I will print these particular domain names as “unique domains” as the domain name would only appear once in the list.    

